The parser message "You can't see any such thing." is used both when the player types a noun the game does not understand, and when he types one that is not currently visible. This extension replaces the message in the latter case (if the player knows about the object in question) with a message acknowledging that the game knows that object exists. In Glulx games, the extension also tracks where each object was last seen and shares that info with the player.

We do this with a new action "remembering" which is triggered by the command ``find [seen thing]`` or ``where is [seen thing]``.
("Seen" is defined in the required Epistemology by Eric Eve extension.)

When an word in the dictionary is mentioned but the "you can't see any such thing" error would be triggered, the program
silently goes back to the parser and tells it to parse "find [rest of command]", thus triggering this passively.
(This is done using the Snippetage by Dave Robinson and Reparse by Nathanael Nerode extensions.)

Disambiguation questions during remembering are usually fairly pointless, since the command isn't going to succeed anyway. We replace them with a generic "You can't see that" style message that doesn't reference a specific noun. If you *do* want to ask disambiguation questions while remembering, add the following line to your code:

	The Remembering don't disambiguate while remembering rule is not listed in any rulebook.

In Glulx games, the message additionally reports the last thing the player witnessed enclosing the item, be it a room, supporter/container, or person. To describe the parent of the remembered item, a new activity is provided called "saying the location name of something". Rooms, for instance, are by default described like "at 'Stage'" (since it's difficult to know whether authors have given their rooms names that will make sense in a natural-language sentence). You can override this for specific rooms by creating a more specific rule:

	For saying the location name of Stage: say "on the main stage".
	
You could also (for instance) make rules to describe items remembered to be in the possession of certain groups of people:

	For saying the location name of a person who is a thief (called the villain): say "pilfered by [the villain]".
	
(See the Rules tab of the Index pane or the final section of the extension itself for a list of the built-in rules.)

All these and the other responses generated by the extension can be seen with the RESPONSES testing command, and modified by giving them a new value. For instance, to change the way an item remembered to be in a room is reported:
	
	The Remembering saying room name rule response (A) is "in the area known as [the place]".

Note: this functionality should work for most games, but assumes that the player character does not change, that time is sequential over the course of the game, and that the player does not observe objects moving in unusual ways (such as during a cut scene). If any of these assumptions are incorrect for your game, you'll need to replace or adjust this chapter.

A final note: if your game makes use of "any" tokens in your Understand lines, you may want to replace the "Remembering replace did not make sense in that context" rule with one that works for your game. (This rule ensures that the "You can't see any such thing" message is still printed for unrecognized words, or nouns which haven't been encountered yet.)

	Section - Remembering Room Names (for Glulx only)

	The Remembering saying room name rule is not listed in any rulebook. For saying the location name of a room (this is the new saying room name rule): say "in [the item described]".

	Section - Better descriptions (for Glulx only)

	First for saying the location name of a container: say "fancifully situated within [the item described]".

	First for saying the location name of a supporter: say "positioned rather artistically atop [the item described]".

